
这是我的故事，一个热爱市场营销的年轻人的故事。当你第一次遇见我的时候,就能发现,我是一个擅长交际的女生。出色的表达能力能够让我很快与陌生人建立良好的沟通关系。本科期间的创业经验以及毕业后的工作经历，让我比较深入地接触到了市场营销这一领域。而在一次次的实践中，我愈发坚定了自己从事市场营销工作的决心，我希望能够通过自己的沟通能力向他人更好地介绍产品。虽然有了一些相关的经历，但为了能够进一步完善自己，通过更多理论知识来进一步提高自己的实践能力，我打算到英国攻读市场营销专业。
本科期间，依托上海外国语大学新闻传播学院合理的课程设置，我学习了心理学、公共关系、广告学、传播学等与市场营销息息相关的课程，而绩效分析的相关专业课程更是能在市场策划中起到重要作用。学习过程中，我也逐渐意识到，市场营销就是要结合客户需求，分析客户定位，策划最佳方案获得更好的绩效。总的来说，营销的过程属于传播的一种形式。
During the undergraduate period, I studied Psychology, Public Relations, Advertising, Communication and other courses related to Marketing at the School of Journalism and Communication, Shanghai International Studies University. Professional courses related to performance analysis played a significant role in market planning. Through learning, I gradually realized that Marketing was to combine customer needs, analyze customer positioning and plan the best program for them to get better performance. In general, marketing process is a form of communication.
在初步学习了一些理论知识之后，我打算将其与实践相结合，进一步提高自己的专业能力。大二那年，我尝试着与同学一起参与创业。我们建立了自己的媒体制作工作室，“M Studio”。虽然这只是一个规模不大的工作室，但对于在校大学生来说，这却是一个非常宝贵的机会。但在校大学生的身份同样给我们带来了不小的麻烦，面对这几个脸庞稍显稚嫩的年轻人，我们的客户对我们的专业能力总持有怀疑的态度。为了能够打消他们的疑虑，我们首先摆正了心态，用非常平和的语气与他们进行沟通。当然，单纯的沟通技巧显然无法达到显著的效果。故我们将一些以PPT为主，视频和图片为辅的课堂作品作为宣传资料，希望能够将自己推销给我们的客户。虽然过程艰难，但这些挫折显然无法击败我们这几个朝气蓬勃的年轻人。我们坚信，一个人可以被毁灭,但不能被打败。终于在不懈的努力下，我们成功地赚到了自己的第一桶金。而出色的工作能力也得到了第一位客户的称赞，他甚至主动将我们推荐给了其他的公司。在此期间，通过与大司田文化传播有限公司、海通证券等公司的合作，我的专业能力得到了历练。这段经历让极大了增强了我对于产品的展示能力以及与客户的沟通能力。期间，我能够精准定位客户需求，将最合适的产品卖点介绍给客户，取得了令人满意的营销效果。随着时间的推移，我们的口碑愈发出色，同时也宣告了我们创业经历的成功。
After acquiring some basic theoretical knowledge, I intend to combine it with practice to further improve my professional skills. In my sophomore year, I tried to engage in entrepreneurship with my classmates. We set up our own media production studio--M Studio. Although this was just a small studio, it was a very valuable opportunity for college students. But the identity of college students also brought us trouble. Our immature faces always made our customers skeptical of our professional skills. In order to dispel their doubts, we firstly adjust our mentality and then communicate with them very calmly. Of course, mere communication skills obviously could not achieve dramatic results. We would use mainly some PPT, and secondly video and pictures class works as promotional materials, hoping to promote ourselves to our customers. Although the process was difficult, these setbacks did not beat us, the young people full of energetic spirit. We believed that one can be destroyed but not defeated. Finally, our efforts paid off. We succeeded in earning our first pot of gold. More importantly, our excellent work ability had been praised by our first customer. He even took the initiative to recommend us to other companies. In the meantime, through the cooperation with Dasitian Culture Communication Co., Ltd., Haitong Securities and other companies, my professional skills were adequately exercised. This experience had greatly enhanced my ability to display products and communicate with customers. During work, I could accurately locate customer needs, and promote the most suitable selling points to customers, achieving satisfactory marketing results. Over time, our reputation had become increasingly outstanding. It also announced the success of our entrepreneurial experience.
虽然有过这样一段成功的创业经历，但我很清楚，若想让自己有更好的发展，我急需一个更大的平台来磨砺自己。而到实体公司工作，则是一个非常好的途径。大四那年，我通过层层选拔，顺利地获得了雅诗兰黛所提供的实习机会。作为全球最大的护肤、化妆品和香水公司之一，雅诗兰黛的内部运作与企业管理模式让我惊叹。这段经历进一步培养了我在一所大型公司从事市场部工作的兴趣。离开雅诗兰黛后，我就职于五百强公司招商银行上海分行，从事零售市场推广工作。在此期间，我主要负责信用卡、手机银行APP、收付易POS机以及消费贷，汽车贷等信贷产品的市场推广工作。令我自豪的是，我自己独立设计的关于“主推大学生信用卡”的营销方案，帮助所在支行提前完成了100%年度信用卡指标，手机银行下载量提高了50%，收付易完成150%指标。这样的成绩得到了领导的褒奖，作为一个刚毕业的学生而言，这显然是一份非常了不起的成绩单。
Although I had such a successful entrepreneurial experience, I was very clear that entity companies were good choices if I wanted to achieve better development and exercise myself in a bigger platform. In my senior year, through several rounds of selection, I successfully obtained the internship opportunities provided by Estee Lauder. As one of the world's largest skin care, cosmetics and perfume companies, Estee Lauder's internal operations and business management model let me marvel. This experience strengthened my interest in Marketing in a large company. After leaving Estee Lauder, I worked at Shanghai Branch of China Merchants Bank, one of the Fortune Global 500 companies. I was mainly in charge of retail marketing. During this period, I was responsible for the marketing of credit card, mobile app, Shoufuyi POS, consumption loans, auto loans and other credit products. I was proud of my own marketing plan on “mainly promoting college credit card”, which helped the branch 100% accomplish the annual credit card target ahead of time. As a result, the downloads of mobile app had increased by 50%, and Shoufuyi 150% accomplished its target. These were highly praised by my boss. This was obviously a very remarkable achievement for a newly-graduate.
此外，我希望能够与您分享我一段特殊的经历。我与我的同学曾需要完成教育电视节目的编导与制作。而由于上海完善的地铁网络给我们的生活带来了极大的便利，我们打算拍摄一段关于上海地铁的宣传片。前期，我们利用大量的时间完成了脚本。但在实际拍摄中，我们发现，由于地铁站禁止私人录像，我们的任务很可能无法完成。思索再三，我们决定向学校申请一份推荐信作为许可。带着推荐信，带着推荐信虽然少了很多阻碍，但仍得不到一些站点工作人员的理解。于是，我们抓紧每一次机会，一点一滴拍摄素材。最终，我们扛着三脚架，几乎拍遍了全上海，最终，通过几个昼夜的剪辑，完成了我的最满意的作品，《十分钟了解上海地铁》。令我们感到安慰的是，这份优秀的作品得到了学校老师的赏识，学校推荐我们参加大学生微电影大赛，而我们也在比赛中获得了优秀奖。
Additionally, I hope to share a special experience of mine with you. My classmates and I once undertook the writing, directing and producing of an educational TV program. Because the perfect Shanghai subway network brought great convenience to us, we intended to shoot a promotional video about Shanghai subway. Earlier, we spent a lot of time on the script. But in the actual shooting, we found that due to the prohibition against private video in subway station, our task was very likely to be unable to complete. After thoughtful consideration, we decided to apply to the school for a letter of recommendation. With the recommendation letter, we faced less obstacles indeed, but we still could not get the understanding from some of the site staffs. So, we seized every opportunity to collect shooting materials bit by bit. Finally, we carried the tripod to almost everywhere in Shanghai for shooting. Eventually, through several days and nights of clips, we finished the most satisfying work--“Understand Shanghai within Ten Minutes”. To our comfort, this work was fully commented by my supervisors in the school. Afterwards, our school recommended our work to compete in College Students' Micro Film Contest and finally we won the Excellence Award.
在过去这几年的学习与实践中，我通过不 断的努力积累了非常丰富的经验，掌握了牢固的专业知识。但为了能够追求更高的平台，我打算留学深造。我希望能够在毕业之后，进入五百强外企从事市场营销工作，五年内成为公司的中间力量，在大公司的平台上，进一步展现自己的才华。众所周知，英国的商科享誉世界，出色的商科教育让我向往已久，贵校的市场营销专业更是个中翘楚。我相信，以我的专业能力以及实践经验，有足够的能力进入贵校，接受贵校最先进的市场营销专业。
In the past few years of study and practice, I had accumulated rich experience through continuous efforts and mastered a solid foundation of professional knowledge. But in order to seek a higher platform, I intended to study abroad. I hope that after graduation, I could engage in Marketing in one of the Fortune Global 500, and become the company's core staff in five years. I want to show my talent on the platform of large companies. As everyone knows, business education in Britain enjoys high reputation in the whole world. Marketing program in your school, in particular, has appealed to me for a long time. I believe that with my professional ability and practical experience, I am capable to be admitted into your school and then receive the most advanced Marketing education there.




